Imagine you're trying to organize
a game of football in an international
summer camp.
You've gathered some interested people,
you've placed them at different positions
on the field, and you've introduced
equipment to use during the game.
You blow the whistle to start,
and all of a sudden,
you realized the game isn't working
quite as well as you planned.
First of all, some folks think
you're playing American football.
Others are thinking soccer and
a few came ready for rugby.
Also, it turns out that some of your
players have never actually played
the game before, or
have only practiced on their own and
don't know how to play as a team.
There's general confusion as
to what the rules are and
what the overall game plan should be.
Without some guidance, our game has
quickly deteriorated into chaos.
Managing how data is used across
an organization can be a lot like this.
There are typically many people involved,
and those people have different points of
view and
expectations on how things should work.
The idea of data governance is
intended to put some structure
around how data is managed and
used in an organization.
By establishing rules and processes around
a variety of data related operations and
decisions.
In this video, we'll cover some of
the most common areas addressed by
data governance, and how data governance
might be set up in an organization.
Let's start by discussing four
major functions of data governance.
Establishing & Maintaining Standards.
Establishing Accountability for Data.
Managing & Communicating Data Development.
And Providing Information
about the Data Environment.
A primary role of data
governance is to establish and
maintain standards around data.
This can take a few different forms.
The first, is identifying what sources
are preferred for each type of data or
metric used in an organization.
There's an idea called Master Data
Management, or MDM, which identifies
the most critical data within an
organization and ensures there is a clear
understanding of where that data should
come from and where it should be stored.
A related idea is that of
common reference data.
Generally speaking, reference data
provides sets of allowable values for
certain data attributes, or
provides additional descriptive
information about key ideas in
the company's data environment.
Sometimes this data is loosely referred
to as look up data, or dimensional data.
Data governance helps to ensure that
reference data is complete and accurate.
Data governance also helps to establish
common definitions and calculations.
The same term might have different
meanings across the organization.
And different teams might use slightly
different calculations to arrive at
the same metric.
Governance helps to ensure that
everyone is on the same page and
does things the same way.
The last set of controls are around
data access and compliance.
A governance process can help to find who
should have access to data under what
circumstances, and is often applied in
support of more general sarbanes oxilly,
or sox controls and data privacy concerns.
We'll talk about data privacy
more in a separate video.
The second major role of data
governance is to establish and
maintain accountability for data.
We'll talk a bit more about how data
governance programs are structured in
a few minutes.
But usually organizations
assign responsibility for
specific data domains to
individuals called data stewards.
Data stewards are generally
accountable for
ensuring that their area has the correct
definitions and are responsible for
the overall state of their data domain.
Governance can also help
identify who is responsible for
addressing various types
of data quality issues.
Like data privacy,
we'll cover data quality in more
detail in a separate video.
The third role of data governance, is to
help manage the overall process of data
development and to communicate
changes to the data environment.
Lots of teams use data and everyone of
them probably has a laundry list of
additions or modifications
they'd like to see implemented.
However, there's usually not enough
capacity to accomplish them all and
there needs to be some way of prioritizing
the work that needs to get done.
Governance can help by providing
a process for vetting, assessing, and
prioritizing which data projects
are undertaken, usually by rationalizing
those projects against the overall
business priorities of the enterprise.
Because data environments are constantly
evolving, there also needs to be some
mechanism for letting the users of
the data know when new data is added.
Or some change or improvement is made.
Having a well structured data governance
approach can facilitate communication
about data and make sure everyone is
informed and aware of the changes.
The last role that data governance plays,
is in providing information about
the data environment itself.
There's a broad class of activities
called metadata management,
which helps to keep track of metadata,
or data about data.
Given that we've gone through all the
trouble of creating standard definitions
and calculations, it's generally
useful to formally document them and
provide that documentation
to the enterprise.
We also might want to provide information
about the lineage of data and
metrics, which traces where
data elements come from.
Or keep a history of changes that
have been made to a data environment.
All of these would fall
under metadata management.
We also might want to provide information
about the quality of certain data domains
or metrics.
Governance mechanisms can help
serve as a clearing house for
this type of information.
Metadata can speak to the what and
where of the data environment, but
it can also indicate how
good the information is.
Likewise, governance can help keep track
of the who, including tracking who data
stewards are and who may be involved
in other data governance functions.
Users can consult this information to
determine who to contact with questions or
concerns about the data.
So that's what data governance does,
let's switch gears a bit and
talk about how it works.
There can be a lot of variance in how
data governance is implemented within
an organization.
However, there are a few
characteristics that are almost
always present in a successful program.
The first is cross-functional
representation.
The whole point of data governance
is to get everyone on the same page.
To do that, everyone needs to be involved.
The best governance structures have
broad participation across technical and
nontechnical teams, usually via
something like a data governance council
that brings those groups together and
addresses governance issues.
The second,
is an ongoing process and schedule.
A data governance council doesn't
do much good if it never convenes,
or doesn't convene often enough.
Or if it doesn't make any decisions, or
if it has no mechanism
to execute on decisions.
A sound data governance program
provides the structure.
The third common element,
is a set of defined roles.
Someone needs to act as
the defacto leader of the program.
This may be a Chair of
the Governance Council or other leader.
Earlier, we discussed to
role of data stewards.
Some form of data stewardship or
ownership is critical to
a successful governance program.
Beyond these ideas, data governance
structures can take many forms and
you may see some functions
implemented in different ways.
For example,
sometimes an organization will
formally staff a data governance
to team that develops and
coordinates processes and handles things
like meta data management or data quality.
However, more often than not,
data governance is executed virtually,
with responsibilities rolled into the
normal job functions on those on the cross
functional team.
Likewise, the drive for
data governance can come from
different parts of the organization.
In some cases,
the function is executed out of IT.
Other times is driven
by an analytics team.
It's also quite common to see data
governance driven by a functional group,
like finance or operations.
This doesn't change the cross
functional nature the activity, but
who takes the lead can say a lot about
how the organization thinks about data.
Finally, some organizations may adopt
more formal tools to assist in their data
governance efforts.
While others take a less formal or
manual approach.
There are robust software tools that
can help with master data management,
metadata management, or data quality.
But not all organizations
find them necessary.
It's not uncommon to see organizations
build their own tools or
use informal documentation methods,
like Wikis or
even standalone documents,
to manage data governance activities.
At this point,
we've covered the major roles the data
governance programs play in organizations.
As well as how those
functions are executed.
With some detail around what
good programs have in common and
how they tend to differ.
Why is this important to
you as the data analyst?
It's really all about knowledge,
context, and the ability for
you to have confidence in the data
you're using for analysis.
Being tied into your company's
data governance program,
or helping to create one if it doesn't
exist, can help you rapidly learn
about what's available,
understand what's good and what's not.
And keep abreast of new additions or
changes to the data environment.
This in turn will assure that you're
always using the best data available
for the job.
And will help you produce
the best insights you can and
have confidence in your results.